# Spatio_Temporal_Crime_Prediction
Forecasting crime is difficult since many different factors contribute to a crime. Because of the large number of everyday crime occurrences in various locations, predicting crime becomes more difficult. Despite the existence of several recognized machine learning and deep learning algorithms, law enforcement officials have obstacles in preventing crime from occurring as soon as possible. To reduce crime rates, law enforcement must be more efficient. Using deep learning techniques, this research developed an effective multi-module strategy for forecasting crime. Our suggested technique is divided into two sections: Feature Level Fusion and Decision Level Fusion. The first module makes use of a temporal-based Attention LSTM, a Spatio-Temporal based Stacked Bidirectional LSTM, and the Fusion model. The Fusion model makes use of the training data from the previous two models. The temporal-based model is the source model for the transfer learning technique on the dataset of
different cities. The model's training time is lowered by using this strategy. The Spatio-Temporal based Attention-LSTM, Stacked Bidirectional LSTM, and the outcome of the feature-level fusion module are utilized to obtain the final prediction in the second module. The suggested architecture forecasts the upcoming hour using data from the previous twenty-four hours. The output of our proposed model may be used to calculate the projected number of crimes in any category for a certain region. It also allows law enforcement to forecast future criminal incidents based on category, time, and location. For the experimental analysis, this paper focused mostly on the cities of San Francisco and Chicago in the United States. Our model has a Mean Absolute Error of 0.008, 0.02, a Coefficient of Determination of 0.95 and 0.94, and a Symmetric Mean Absolute Percentage Error of 1.03% and 0.6% for the San Francisco and Chicago datasets, respectively. The suggested model outperforms many well-known models. An abstract diagram of deep learning based proposed method (Model A represents ATTN-LSTM model for temporal feature, Model B
represents St-Bi-LSTM model, and Model C represents ATTN-LSTM model for Spatio-temporal features) is in the following:


![An abstract diagram of deep learning based proposed method (Model A represents ATTN-LSTM model for temporal feature, Model B
represents St-Bi-LSTM model, and Model C represents ATTN-LSTM model for Spatio-temporal features).](https://github.com/NowshinTasnim/Spatio_Temporal_Crime_Prediction/blob/main/images/tasni1.svg)
